# Assignment 3 - Extracting quality score summaries from a FASTQ file

There are now several web applications and stand-alone apps that will summarize the base quality in a FASTQ file, but it wasn't that long ago that the best option was to do it yourself.  It is still helpful to be able to do this yourself, not only because data formats are inevitably going to change, but also because you should never have to rely on someone else's program when you don't know what it's doing.  

For this assignment, we're going to download a relatively small FASTQ file generated by an Illumina MiSeq from a paired-end library targeting circulating tumor DNA ([source](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sra/ERX948700[accn])).  This sample came from a patient suffering from [non-small-cell lung carcinoma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-small-cell_lung_carcinoma), and was uploaded by the [Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute](http://www.cruk.cam.ac.uk/).  

I've uploaded the file to the `examples` folder as `ERR869099.fastq.gz`.  The `.gz` suffix means that this is a binary file that is the result of compressing the original FASTQ file using the GNU program [gzip](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gzip).  I compressed the file because it is generally a bad idea to upload large binary files to a version control repository like GitHub.  

Please submit your completed assignment as a Markdown file to me by e-mail.

1. Use a UNIX command to determine how large this compressed file is in bytes.  Show the command you used.  Next, uncompress the file using the command `gunzip -k ERR869099.fastq.gz` (the `-k` flag keeps the original file) and use the same command to see how the file size has changed.  By what factor did the file size increase?
```shell

```

2. How many records are in the uncompressed FASTQ file?

3. During class, you'll have already written a script for parsing a FASTQ file, including a function that converts the ASCII quality string into a vector of integer-valued scores.  The primary objective of this assignment is to tabulate the quality scores at each read position and then report the number in each cell as a CSV file.  The end result should look like this:

|pos|0|1|2|...|39|40|41|
|---|-|-|-|---|--|--|--|
| 1 |1|15|13|   |69|53| 3|
| 2 |0|6|7|   |178|80|22|
| 3 |0|0|0|   |1005|309|178|
|...| | | |   |  |  |  |
|299|16|55|101|   | 0| 0| 0|
|300|68|89|121|   | 0| 0| 0|

